Jehovah's people have always considered the studying of his word to be an essential part
of life.
God's law to Israel commanded that the King must read from the law all the days of his
life so that he may learn to fear Jehovah his God.
In the Mayan territories of Yucatan, Mexico, our brothers are helping people learn to
read God's word for themselves.
People's lives change when they can finally read the Bible on their own, and more readily
learn to fear Jehovah their God.
One out of every six people on earth doesn't know how to read.
Jehovah's Witnesses around the world have organized literacy classes to help such ones.
I don't like to read.
I used to sleep at the meetings.
In our territory, most people speak the Mayan language, but very few can read it.
On occasion I would give a talk, and when I would cite a scripture, most of the audience
would look it up, but then I would see a blank stare on their face because they couldn't
read the text.
I was moved to learn how to read because I wanted to learn about Jehovah and study his
word the Bible.
So a sister came to my house to teach me.
Literacy classes are often conducted on an individual level.
After a person has had their Bible study, they can spend some time to practice reading skills.
When the local elders notice that there are many that can benefit from this training,
they can schedule a larger class at the Kingdom Hall.
The study material used for this purpose is the brochure, apply yourself to reading and
writing.
It's available in 30 languages in the Central America branch territory.
Other study materials can be used as well, as long as they help the development of the
students enrolled in the class.
And we use a board on which we write, for instance, words that are difficult to pronounce.
This helps in the reading of complicated words.
There are some who are, well, very quick learners.
On the other hand, others go word by word, but as they practice, they start getting the
hang of it.
I'm good at masonry work, but learning to read is not easy.
Reading at his age is a big challenge.
You need to understand that each student learns differently.
With some, you need to be very patient.
The first word I learned to write was Jehovah.
It's like this, I tell him.
He says it's because you're not being patient with me.
Having a sense of humor is a big help in the learning process, so it's not to focus
on errors and mistakes.
Since 1946, when records began being taken in Mexico, more than 152,000 people have learned
to read and write thanks to these training efforts.
The Secretary of Public Education in the state of Mexico has recognized the work and the
great help these literacy classes have been to the local citizens.
The skills they learn help in their day-to-day life, but also it helps them to learn more about
Jehovah and to be able to teach others.
I used to have to memorize everything I was going to say, but now I can read short scriptures
to people directly from the Bible.
As the students progress in the class, they demonstrate the words found at 1 Timothy
415, which says in part, so that your advancement may be plainly seen by all people.
And these benefits are plainly seen in the students.
My husband was an alcoholic, he smoked, and he used bad language, but he made big changes
in his life.
When we see that this training has been a big help, we really see these great blessings.
Reading helped me to get baptized.
Helping other people to improve their reading skills makes me feel very happy.
I feel great because I see on their face the joy they get from reading and understanding
the information.
Well, I've benefited so much.
For instance, now we read the Bible together as a family.
It makes me very happy.
We're more united as a family.
Our children respect my husband more like the father he is.
Now I'm a ministerial servant.
When I go preaching door to door, some people say, I don't know how to read.
But then I tell them, I didn't know either, but I learned about Jehovah, and you can too.
If I learned to read, anybody can.